# Dai Token

**Level**: Beginner

**Estimated Time**: 30 - 60 minutes

## Overview

Dai is a decentralized stablecoin currently live on the Ethereum network. The
Maker Protocol incentivizes users to increase or decrease the Dai token supply
based on supply and demand and ensures its value stays pegged to 1 USD.

The token contract conforms to the ERC20 token standard which allows wallets,
exchanges, and other applications to easily integrate with minimal effort. This
guide will be useful to developers integrating Dai in applications like wallets,
exchanges, and smart contracts to get a better understanding of the token
contract and its functionality.

## Learning Objectives

- You will learn basic information about the token.

- Understand the additional functions supported by the token contract.

- Deploy your own token to an Ethereum testnet.

- Integrate the Dai token effectively with your application.

## Pre-requisites

- Knowledge of the
  [ERC20](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-20.md) token
  standard.

- Ability to send ethereum transactions from your preferred dev environment.

## Guide

- [Token Info](#token-info)

- [Getting Dai](#getting-dai)

- [Token contract](#token-contract)

- [Deploy a DSToken](#deploy-a-dstoken)

### Token Info

#### Addresses

Dai is available on the Ethereum mainnet at
[0x6b175474e89094c44da98b954eedeac495271d0f](https://etherscan.io/token/0x6b175474e89094c44da98b954eedeac495271d0f)
and the Kovan testnet at
[0x4f96fe3b7a6cf9725f59d353f723c1bdb64ca6aa](https://kovan.etherscan.io/token/0x4f96fe3b7a6cf9725f59d353f723c1bdb64ca6aa).

#### Details

The _symbol_ field is set to ‘DAI’ and the _name_ field is currently set to ‘Dai
Stablecoin’.

Token precision field _decimals_ is set to 18 like most other ERC20 tokens.

#### Token stats

Multi Collateral Dai has been live on the Ethereum mainnet since November 18,
2019 and its current total supply can be viewed on
[DaiStats](https://daistats.com/).

Sai (legacy Dai) has been live on the Ethereum mainnet since December 17, 2017
and its current total supply can be viewed on
[MakerScan](https://makerscan.io/). Supply varies constantly as new tokens are
generated or removed every time a user creates new debt or pays their existing
debt off on their
[Collateralized Debt Position](https://makerdao.com/en/whitepaper/#collateralized-debt-position-smart-contracts)(CDP).
You can also see additional stats of the token updated real-time on
[mkr.tools](https://mkr.tools/tokens/dai). Note that MakerScan or mkr.tools are
websites maintained by the community and may not always produce accurate data.

The system internally uses 1 USD as the target price of Dai when it issues new
debt or removes existing debt from a Vault but the market price of the token
could vary based on a variety of conditions like exchange liquidity, trading
pair etc.

Care should be taken before using the price of Dai directly reported by sources
like [CoinMarketCap](https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/dai/), because
exchange bugs may produce unreasonable price data. In many scenarios, such as
displaying the value of Dai in a wallet, it is perfectly fine to hard code the
price of a token to 1 USD.

### Getting Dai

#### Mainnet

Dai can be purchased with Ether on many popular exchanges,
[https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/multi-collateral-dai/markets/](https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/multi-collateral-dai/markets/).
It is also available on many decentralized exchanges like
[Oasis](https://oasis.app/trade/), [KyberSwap](https://kyberswap.com/), and
[Uniswap](https://uniswap.exchange/).

You can also create your own Dai by opening a Vault with
[https://oasis.app/](https://oasis.app/).

#### Testnet

The best method to get Kovan Dai is to open a testnet Vault using Kovan ETH and
create your required amount of Dai from it. The lowest collateralization ratio
will give you the most bang for the buck! Another option is to buy Kovan Dai
with Kovan ETH on [Oasis](https://oasis.app/trade if there is sufficient
liquidity available.

### Token Contract

#### DSToken

Dai token is deployed using the [DSToken](https://github.com/dapphub/ds-token)
codebase from [Dappsys](https://dapp.tools/dappsys/). It implements all
functions and events as defined in the ERC20 token standard. The codebase at
commit
[f22f681](https://github.com/makerdao/dss-deploy-scripts/commit/bad5e39ad7389a78e183234dc29bbdf00f88265a)
was used for deployments on both networks.

Binary approval can be given to addresses by token holders using
_approve(address)_ which sets the approved token amount to _MAX_UINT_.

DSToken implements additional mint and burn functions to increase/decrease the
total token supply under certain conditions. Permission checks are delegated to
an authority contract which checks whether the caller is authorized to execute
these protected functions or not.

Tokens are created when a user adds collateral to their Vault and creates new
Dai from it. Tokens are destroyed when the same user pays back the same amount
of Dai they’ve previously issued for the system to remove them from the supply
and return their locked collateral back.

The
[MCD_DAI_JOIN](https://etherscan.io/address/0x9759a6ac90977b93b58547b4a71c78317f391a28#code)
adapter contract in the Maker Protocol process calls to the Dai token which can
increase or decrease the total supply.

#### Mint

Mint has the function signature: _mint(address guy, uint wad)_. It increases the
total supply of the token as well as the _guy’s_ token balance by the _wad_
amount. This generates an event with the signature: _Mint(address indexed guy,
uint wad)_. All calls to _mint()_ originate from the _exit()_ function on the
[DaiJoin](https://etherscan.io/address/0x9759a6ac90977b93b58547b4a71c78317f391a28#code)
contract.

#### Burn

Burn has the function signature: _burn(address guy, uint wad)_. It decreases the
total supply of the token as well as the _guy_’s token balance by the _wad_
amount. It also generates an event with the signature: _Burn(address indexed
guy, uint wad)._

Calls to _burn()_ originate from _join()_ function on the
[DaiJoin](https://etherscan.io/address/0x9759a6ac90977b93b58547b4a71c78317f391a28#code)
contract.

#### Authority

Owner variable in the contract has been set to the 0x0 address after deployment.
Token holder functions like _transferFrom()_, and _approve()_ are fully open for
existing token holders to call.

#### Emergency Shutdown

MKR holders through their governance contract can vote to shut down the system
by executing the _cage()_ function on the
[ESM](https://etherscan.io/address/0x0581a0abe32aae9b5f0f68defab77c6759100085#code)
contract.

After emergency shutdown, all DAI holders are allowed to claim collateral for
each token at the last price reported by price feed oracles. Two functions-
_cash()_ and _pack()_, are activated in END contract. _Cash()_ allows token
holders to redeem Dai for ETH at the exchange ratio set at emergency shutdown.

The _transferFrom()_ function has a few aliases available: _push_, _pull_, and
_move_, both _mint_ and _burn_ functions also have aliases that automatically
create or remove Dai of the _msg.sender_.

### Deploy a DSToken

You will need to install dapptools to finish this section. Installation
instructions can be found here, [https://dapp.tools/](https://dapp.tools/)
Initialize your `.sethrc` file with the right values for the env variables
`SETH_CHAIN` and `ETH_FROM` as mentioned
[here](https://github.com/dapphub/dapptools/tree/master/src/seth#example-sethrc-file).
Seth will automatically search the default folder paths for Geth and Parity
keystores, or your Ledger hardware wallet, for the address you've set.

Clone a local copy of the DSToken repo from this link,
[https://github.com/dapphub/ds-token.git](https://github.com/dapphub/ds-token.git)

Run `dapp update` to initialize all the git submodules present in the repo. Run
`dapp build` to build the codebase and generate the files required to deploy the
token contract.

Run `dapp create DSTokenFactory` to deploy the DSTokenFactory contract, which
we'll use to deploy a new token contract next. Copy the address of the factory
to use in our next command.

Use seth to call _make()_ on the factory contract with _symbol_ and _name_ as
input to deploy a new DSToken. Bytes32 values in the following command will set
the symbol to 'DAI' and name to 'Dai Stablecoin v1.0' on the deployed token
contract.

```bash
seth send DSTokenFactoryAddress 'make(bytes32,bytes32)' 0x4441490000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 0x44616920537461626c65636f696e2076312e3000000000000000000000000000
```

This command will deploy a new DSToken with your address set as the owner.

## Summary

In this guide, we briefly discussed the technical details of the Dai token
contract as well as a quick summary of its role in the Maker Protocol. Please
refer to the links embedded in the document as well as the additional resources
section for more information. We also urge you to explore the various tools and
services built on top of Dai by our partner ecosystem.

## Additional resources

1. [https://github.com/makerdao/sai](https://github.com/makerdao/sai)

2. [Using Dai in smart contracts](https://github.com/makerdao/developerguides/blob/master/dai/dai-in-smart-contracts/README.md)

3. [https://dapp.tools/dappsys/ds-auth.html](https://dapp.tools/dappsys/ds-auth.html)

4. [https://hackernoon.com/how-one-hacker-stole-thousands-of-dollars-worth-of-cryptocurrency-with-a-classic-code-injection-a3aba5d2bff0](https://hackernoon.com/how-one-hacker-stole-thousands-of-dollars-worth-of-cryptocurrency-with-a-classic-code-injection-a3aba5d2bff0)

## Help

- Contact Integrations team - integrate@makerdao.com

- Rocket chat - #dev channel
